Enhancing Student Employability in Collaboration with the
Industry: Case Study of a Partnership with Amazon Web
Services Academy


Objectives

To provide a critical analysis of the partnership between higher academic institutions and the Academy for the AWS with a focus on improving student employability. 
The discussion serves as a springboard for evaluating the effectiveness of forming an industry-based curriculum in higher education in closing the skills gap in the present workforce. 

Role

From a research perspective, this report analyzes the impact of the collaboration between AWS Academy and Queen Mary University of London in influencing academic and professional outcomes for students. 
Strengths, gaps, and real applications of this partnership are ascertained through the examination of its methodologies, findings, and implications.

Audience

The audience for the report consists of an eclectic gathering of educators, policy-makers, and researchers who are found interested in enhancing the employability of graduates through industry-academia collaborations; 
therefore, the report provides insights about best practices for curriculum enhancement, backed, however, for good measure, with evidence from existent literature.

Situation

The rising cost of tuition and greater employer demands for hiring-ready graduates has led academic institutions to better justify their worth by producing skills and knowledge relevant to the industry. 
The AWS Academy and QMUL partnership is a case study in the integration of theoretical and practical learning in enhancing student employability in the booming field of cloud computing.

Operation/Products

In this report:
1. Key findings from the case study are summarized.
2. Strengths, weaknesses, and gaps in the literature are critically analyzed.
3. Insights are synthesized for broader patterns and implications for future research.
4. Actionable strategies for replicating and improving similar industry-academic collaborations are recommended.
